Okay. I was just saying, did we see any basic
changes or anything like that? No, like I said,
we're pretty well on an equal scholastic level,
and those things have sort of been weeded out of our
inputs. Now, we do have one basic problem around
here. What's that? And that's Aggies and T-Cyps.
Aggies are definitely inferior, according to
TCIP's.
Are the majority of NASA employees here in the
military, or are they civilian? They're all
civilian. Has that changed since NASA first began
in the past? It seemed like all the astronauts were
mainly in the military, and all you ever saw were
people with the crew cuts and everything. Has that
changed? Must be talking about Gene Kranz.
Let me tell you first that I've always had military
detailees working for me. They were in the PASS
programs for many, many years. And there was, as
far as I know, in terms of pay, they were paid by the
military, but it was here for training to learn
orbital mechanics and different flight mechanic
skills and how you actually operate in space. And
they used, they donated time, they donated time to
the individual, and we went through a training
process with them. And of course, we were able to
use them in a productive manner. As we moved in more
into the military, also getting more, being more
dependent on the orbiter as a launch vehicle, they
have more people here. They've elected right now
in order to save money and instead of having their
own launch facility and duplication of control
facilities, et cetera, to co-locate here with us
and do all the operations out of the control
center, which makes a lot of sense because it does
save a lot of taxpayer dollars. And instead of
going over and duplicating the whole operation,
that you only use those parts that you need. So in
that case, there is a more than military they're
only working on their pangolins, on their
flights. Is there any tension between the two
groups? Not
as bad as the Angus and the T-6. No, they're very
well accepted in both ways, and they work quite
well together. Since you've been at NASA, what
changes have taken place as far as our goals in
space?
That's a good question. I think basically the
first emphasis was to, it was a national pride.
There was a lot of things being lost in terms of
prestige amongst the other countries around the
world. And actually, the technology is one of the
best things we've got to sell to the rest of the
world. And you always got to give a country or any
individual, treat a country the same as you would
an individual. You always gotta set goals and
objectives above what one can achieve, or make
them high, at least, so he will strive to meet those
requirements. And in the process of doing that,
there's a lot of spinoff of good products, and the
things that we're enjoying today in the
commercial world is a lot of that is spent on some of
the things we paid them, the taxpayer money is paid
for the R&D development of it. And the process of
doing all that told the national pride in our, in
how we looked, and that's a product, that's one of
the best products in terms of engineering skills
and products. One of the best things we can sell to
foreign countries, and etc. That's a big
exportable item.
We shifted from
really more or less as a nation trying to be number
one in space and etc. to a point of where we're
trying to go into more of the commercial world and
actually sell time in space, work with other
customers. So it was a shift from a a national pride
type of thing, I think, to now more, hey, I satisfy
the customer internationally, et cetera, who
wants to fly out in space. Does that make sense?
Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, we've gone from just
wanting to be the first in space, or first to do
this, or first to be on the moon in the best, to
commercialism. Yeah, the old commercialism has
taken over there now, that also has money to be
made. It doesn't have to be subsidized by the
government. What do you think Russia's steps will
be? I mean, seeing as how they are a
non-capitalistic nation, what will their steps
be? Or where are they, you know, where they're
working, what they're working on, what they're
trying to accomplish? I suspect, I think they're
trying to, I've heard rumors about having a
getting a larger launch vehicle going to put more
weight into space. I think you'll see them
probably moving in the morning to maybe larger
space stations.
Well, ours are being used for commercialistic
reasons. What will theirs, what do you think
theirs will be used for? I think they'll obviously
be looking at both areas. There's one definitely
militaristic thing that could be used with them.
But also they're interested in doing commercial
development of various things, so they'll be
doing a lot of experiments and things like that on
board, and manufacturing and that sort of stuff.
What are NASA's plans after the show?
After the show?
Well, there's really no such thing as after the
show.
If you're at the space station, okay. The reason I
say that, you can look at the, the shuttle's gonna
be around for years. It's gonna be like the
original. It's gonna be like the DC-3s that's been
flying now for, what, 40 years. Commercial air,
like 707s, 747s, the planes don't sort of go away.
They just, they keep flying and you get better
ones. I wouldn't be surprised if you don't see the
basic orbiter flying for another, It was designed
for 10 years. It'll probably fly for 20 or 30 years
at least. And of course, we're talking about
upgrading it, making it better. And when we move
into the space station, which is what we're doing
now, that occupies pretty well for the next 10
years. And then after that, I think we'll see a man.
There's two moves. There's one talking about
going back to the moon and putting some planetary
bases there. So pretty wild ideas of things we can
do on the moon in terms of commercial. There's a
concept that we'll put power generating stations
on the lunar surface that would produce, gather
the sun's energy and focus it back to the earth and
be able to collect it and provide it for commercial
use for I was saying, I've heard of numbers where it
would be done as cheap as we can do it now, currently
here on the Earth, so then that type of development
comes with an endless supply of energy. We just use
the sun's energy reflected from big reflectors on
the lunar surface. And you're talking about, for
example there, one concept is you take a bunch of
bulldozers up there and you bulldoze this big
surface out into reflecting areas. where it
becomes a collector and focuses that energy back
to the earth.
There's a lot of different groups pushing
different ways. I suspect we probably see some
in-planetary man, in-planetary exploratory
activities. And then also maybe a man permanent
presence on the moon. Back to the question about
women and blacks. the Russians were the first one
to put a woman in orbit, and the first to have a co-ed
flight. Why, you know, you said that women were
always here employed. Why do you think it took so
long for them to be put into space here in America?
Well, one can go from the point of trying to find
somebody who's really qualified to, to stand to
the rigors of doing that activity, and that's That
has some
semi-merits, might say weak merits probably. One
of the things that preconditioning for the early
flights was to have somebody who had had a lot of
training in an aircraft business or military
realistic type training. That was a resource that
saved a lot of cross training. And that was a simple
resource to draw upon. And then the other thing is
there's a lot of
accommodations that would have made it
difficult. It would be a lot more engineering work
to have to do to set the accommodations for women as
simple as it was for men, like potty
accommodations and that sort of stuff. So,
when you're trying to put together a facility,
minimize the complications. So I think it's one of
those just to have the right accommodations and
putting it into the design and working with
getting qualified people. Has that taken a lot of
adjustment in the shuttle to accommodate it to
work? I don't think so. I think that
accommodations were sort of built in from
scratch. You know, it was sort of built in. and
that's different than having to go back in and
redesign, and of course the concept there was that
it was actually built into the design, and it's, I
think about the original question, one of the
problems was that we, these selected, NASA
selected to use the military pilots and things as a
prime source of of astronaut candidates. And...
At that time, women weren't in the military? They
weren't in the military, but too early. I don't
think you had too many fighter pilots and that sort
of stuff. And that's basically what they were
looking for. I mean, you could select another
group of people as a source of people to pick from.
But they just happened to say, hey, let's go to the
military and use them. So they might have used
truck drivers. Has there been much of an impact
here at NASA with women here and blacks? Has there
been any prejudices? Not really. No more than, I
wouldn't say normal, just everybody really It's
more on a technical level, and everybody respects
you from a technical standpoint. And you usually
don't pull a lot of punches. I have two ladies I'm
working with now that seem to be tigers.
They definitely don't pull no punches on us. In
closing, today, the press came out and said that
Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko died
yesterday. What type of effect would the death of a
Soviet leader and the question of who will be
appointed next have on anything, you know, as far
as our scheduling? Does that, are we, do we have to
reschedule if someone, you know, really
non-American or, you know, down on Americans gets
appointed? What does something like that do
around here? I don't think it's gonna, we're
pretty well insulated from that right now, since
we're not really materialistic,
otherwise not involved with the military that
much at the center, that I don't see this having a
lot to do with how we operate here. They have a
mental impact. And we're pretty well, I like to
say, pretty well insulated from all that
activity. and those type of major decisions. Now
if they come out with, but on the other hand if they
come out and made a major statement that he's going
to put manned, manned a station on the moon or make a
big push for Mars or something like that, do a
manned landing on Mars, and that was the national
objective of the Russians, obviously those type
of decisions would definitely affect us. Okay,
well thank you for your time. Enjoy it. Thank you.